So let's set up a project where we use the angle material package we can find all the steps we need
to execute on this page.
And important.
You don't install the angular material package globally on your machine.
It's not a tool it's not a global program on your computer.
It's per project dependency which you can drop into any angular project.
This of course means that you need an angle or project and I strongly recommend creating that project
with the angular Seelye.
This is what we will do in this course too.
So let's first of all ensure that the seal is installed you install the seal I from within the command
line tool or the terminal depending on whether you are on Mac and Windows the steps are to say to install
the seal.
You will need NPM know it's package manager which is a dependency management tool that's commonly used
to install all kinds of dependencies both in a project as it will do it later with Angle a material
or globally on your machine.
Therefore you will need node J.S. not only for that package management tool it ships with but also because
you will need no chase itself for the development server Seelye creates a server that hosts your application
your angular application during development.
We're not going to write any Nokia's code but we still will need a server to test everything.
And that's just what we can host with no Chason what the seal I will give us.
Out of the box without us writing any Chia's code.
So download the latest version of Nokia's lined up for in my case.
Or if you're facing any issues.
Pick the long term stability where an 8.9 and like his here and try this one once you've got no chips
installed.
You've got a convenient installer where you simply walk through the steps.
You install the seal either running NPM install Dashti at angular Selye anywhere on your machine.
So anywhere in your terminal on your machine on Mac and Linux you might need to add a pseudo in front
of this command to give it the right permissions.
Thereafter you may or may not be prompted to enter a password and it will then stall the seal Eitel
globally on your machine.
This can take a couple of minutes and I'll be back once it's finished the installation of the seal I've
finished and now you can use it to create a new angle or project.
So for that you should navigate into the folder in the terminal where you want to create that project
and then run Engy new to create a new project and then the name of the project since we're building
a fitness tracker in this course all on the project fitness tracker but the name is totally up to you.
You hit enter and now does will create a single project with the configuration files it needs with the
default component it starts with and everything it requires.
It will all install all the dependencies of the project both development dependencies like WEP pack
which bundles and optimize your code.
Or of course production dependencies like the angular packages itself.
This can also take a couple of seconds and I'll be back once this is finished.
So if the project is finished we can now navigate into it and finally install angular material Angelyn
material is just a number dependency of our project then.
So how do we install it.
Well we can find all the steps in the Getting Started Guide on material to England.
I know we can copy dead command here to use NPM.
An alternative would be Arnon alternative to NPM but we will use NPM And of course to install both angular
material anti-hunger or CDK on which material builds up.
So we need both.
So copy the entire command.
So you simply run this command.
Inside your project folder you just created.
No it doesn't.
This is really only needed as a dependency of angular material.
You don't have to build your own components with it.
We will build our own components but just normal components of which we compose our app in which we
will in turn use Anglo material components.
So now the two packages are installed.
The next step would be here and you can skip it.
An alternative basically to use the cutting edge latest version directly from get happen.
We will do that so we will use the ones which are published 22:00 and can go to Step Two.
Now here we need to install the angler any missions package because Ingela material uses that package.
However before you run this command Let's open the project in some editor of your choice and see if
we already got that package installed maybe because for new or word of the Seelye that should be the
case.
I hope the project in Visual Studio code and does this the angler's Seelye project was created for us.
If you have a look at the package dodgiest and fall you can see that the angular animation package is
already installed though so you don't need to install that again.
It's already there.
Here you can also see the CDK and the material package we just installed.
So angular animations isn't Stoltze we can skip this step.
We shouldn't skip the next step though where we import the browser animations module and added to our
project setup so that we really can use a nations in our project in angular.
You have to explicitly add all the features you want to use so that your code can be optimized.
So let's go to the source app folder and there the app module and then there you now should import that
browser animations module so import browser animations module from and then it's at a singular platform
browser and there slash animations be out of it.
This is the full import we need.
And you simply need to add that browser animations module to your imports array in the app module that
saved that file.
And you got this step completed too.
Now step three is to import the component modules you plan on using.
Now this is important in angular material.
Every component has its own module which you need to import to be able to use that component like for
example the button component get its own module the checkbox to drop down and so on.
The reason for this is simple by putting everything into its own module.
Your code can be optimized and be made as small as possible.
You're not importing all components of angular material by default but only what you need.
Which means the code you ship to the user in the end is also only what your app needs.
And therefore as small as possible.
One thing you can do though to not put all these imports into your app marginal and therefore get a
really fat and bake app Marchal you can create a separate module that you simply import into the app
module but which you use to manage all the material.
Module imports and exports therefore.
And this is what I will do so next to the app module I will trade a material or module the TS file and
simply export a new class in there which is named material module and this will be a modular angular
module I use to manage all the material package imports and then also exports to make it available outside
of this module.
So we add DNG modules decorator Tudor's class here to turn it into a angular module and this decorator
needs to be in order.
So Engy module needs to be imported from at angular core.
Now this is a single module and we want to declare components in there or something like that.
We will simply import modules from the Anglo material package and these imported modules will do the
declarations for us.
So therefore we will need an import serrate where we will step by step and the packages or modules of
the various components we use.
However the goal of course is to simply import the material module into the Yapp module so did we just
have the functionality outsourced we still want to use it in the app module and the components that
belong to the app Marchal.
Therefore we will also add a exports array where we will export all the imported material modules.
Sounds strange but the idea really is to have an extra file or we managed imports.
So these modules and we need to export that to make it available outside of this material module too.
So we're really just shifting code.
But with that we can go to the app module and there will add an import queue material module and point
to that material to a module file.
And now we can import the material modules here in the lab module by adding it to the imports array
and we will get access to all the modules exported in the material module.
Can you hear the word modules still.
Well the idea simply is that we can manage our material imports in a separate file but still have access
to them in the entire app.
So this is the set up we will use and we will add all the component modules we need to that material
module file.
This is a pattern suggested in the official getting started guide.
With that we can move forward two steps forward including a theme for that we should copy this in order
here and import angular material people themes and go to the style Start CSSA file and add does import.
This is important angular material components.
Use a theme.
FEMA is just a color combination of a primary color X and color and a warning color in its core.
We will dive into theming later in the course.
Now angular material ships with a couple of pre-build themes.
You can actually see all of them by accessing node modules at Engler and their material and there as
free both themes folder.
You see we've got four pre-build themes.
We're using the Indico pink.
C s s one in this case.
So these are the themes you could choose from and they will give you different color combinations.
And by adding the import here all angular material components will automatically use that color combination.
So that's really useful with that added We have to add gesture support this required to be able to use
gestures on mobile devices like for example sliding with the finger.
For that we will use an external library which is used behind the scenes by angle of material and that
is hammer J.S..
So you can copy this command and executed in the terminal navigate it into the project folder here using
the one integrated into the ID.
This is the normal operating system terminal though.
Just navigate into the project already.
Simply hit enter.
And this will install Hamre genius.
Now this will install it but to use it we need to include in our bundle and to include it we go to the
main Katia's file and at the very top you simply add import Hamre J.S. and this will pull the dependency
into our final bundle so that it is a whaleboat in the code we shipped to the user now that six step
is to add angular material Aikins this is a special I can set you can find out more by clicking this
link which allows you to use all these icons in your app with little effort.
We will dive into icons and how you use them later in the course of course.
But in order to be able to use them at all you need to add this link here to your index team of file
in the head section right at the end of the head section for example.
With that we import these icons from a CDN and can therefore later use them.
Now you can skip the system JSM step.
We're using a seal I project and therefore web page so does doesn't matter and therefore we are done
with the set up.
We now get a project where we imported angular material and where we can get started.
So let's get started and let's dive into how to use angular material.